Hard to match, verified one by one

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/372353873_Deep_learning_reveals_key_aspects_to_help_interpret_the_structure-property_relationships_of_materials
https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/68f2619f5dd091524f0de4af
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37265212/
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2021/sc/d1sc02770k
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/jcc.26872
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41524-024-01264-z
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2017/cp/c7cp04913g
https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/679328e16dde43c908271b0f
https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/67878e316dde43c908a7931a
https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/681dadb6e561f77ed4c7421c
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jcim.0c01041
https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/651051d4ed7d0eccc32252ea
https://pubs.aip.org/aip/jcp/article-abstract/106/3/1063/478756/Assessment-of-Gaussian-2-and-density-functional?redirectedFrom=fulltext
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2025/sc/d5sc01476j
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.chemmater.8b03572
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2018/ta/c8ta04186e
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.jcim.8b00256
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2019/sc/c8sc05710a
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2024/sc/d3sc06133g
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-021-00798-x
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlehtml/2023/dd/d3dd00015j
https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2021/sc/d1sc03343c
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-16201-z
www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S000925092500051X
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.jctc.7b01183
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.201904021
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/jacs.5c02097

{"title": "Deep learning reveals key aspects to help interpret the structure–property relationships of materials", "abstract": "Deep learning (DL) models currently employed in materials research exhibit certain limitations in delivering meaningful information for interpreting predictions and comprehending the relationships between structure and material properties. To address these limitations, we propose an interpretable DL architecture that incorporates the attention mechanism to predict material properties and gain insights into their structure–property relationships."}
{"title": "Multi-Solvent Graph Neural Network for Reduction Potential Prediction across the Chemical Space", "abstract": "Reduction potentials of redox-active molecules and materials are essential descriptors of their performance as catalysts, antioxidants, electrode materials, etc. For a given species, its practical applications often span a range of solvent environments, which profoundly impact its redox properties. In this work, we present a message passing graph neural network architecture with a set transformer readout trained on ca. 20,000 reduction potentials of chemically diverse closed- and open-shell organic redox-active molecules (the “ReSolved” dataset), computed using a rigorously benchmarked density functional theory procedure. The predictor model affords high accuracy with mean absolute errors of ca. 0.2 eV and is uniquely able to generalise to previously unseen solvents. We couple this architecture with an evolutionary algorithm to inverse-design synthetically accessible candidate molecules with target reduction potentials for several battery-related practical applications."}
{"title": "Matrix of orthogonalized atomic orbital coefficients representation for radicals and ions", "abstract": "Chemical (molecular, quantum) machine learning relies on representing molecules in unique and informative ways. Here, we present the matrix of orthogonalized atomic orbital coefficients (MAOC) as a quantum-inspired molecular and atomic representation containing both structural (composition and geometry) and electronic (charge and spin multiplicity) information. MAOC is based on a cost-effective localization scheme that represents localized orbitals via a predefined set of atomic orbitals. The latter can be constructed from such small atom-centered basis sets as pcseg-0 and STO-3G in conjunction with guess (non-optimized) electronic configuration of the molecule. Importantly, MAOC is suitable for representing monatomic, molecular, and periodic systems and can distinguish compounds with identical compositions and geometries but distinct charges and spin multiplicities. Using principal component analysis, we constructed a more compact but equally powerful version of MAOC—PCX-MAOC. To test the performance of full and reduced MAOC and several other representations (CM, SOAP, SLATM, and SPAHM), we used a kernel ridge regression machine learning model to predict frontier molecular orbital energy levels and ground state single-point energies for chemically diverse neutral and charged, closed- and open-shell molecules from an extended QM7b dataset, as well as two new datasets, N-HPC-1 (N-heteropolycycles) and REDOX (nitroxyl and phenoxyl radicals, carbonyl, and cyano compounds). MAOC affords accuracy that is either similar or superior to other representations for a range of chemical properties and systems."}
{"title": "A quantitative metric for organic radical stability and persistence using thermodynamic and kinetic features", "abstract": "Long-lived organic radicals are promising candidates for the development of high-performance energy solutions such as organic redox batteries, transistors, and light-emitting diodes. However, “stable” organic radicals that remain unreactive for an extended time and that can be stored and handled under ambient conditions are rare. A necessary but not sufficient condition for organic radical stability is the presence of thermodynamic stabilization, such as conjugation with an adjacent π-bond or lone-pair, or hyperconjugation with a σ-bond. However, thermodynamic factors alone do not result in radicals with extended lifetimes: many resonance-stabilized radicals are transient species that exist for less than a millisecond. Kinetic stabilization is also necessary for persistence, such as steric effects that inhibit radical dimerization or reaction with solvent molecules. We describe a quantitative approach to map organic radical stability, using molecular descriptors intended to capture thermodynamic and kinetic considerations. The comparison of an extensive dataset of quantum chemical calculations of organic radicals with experimentally-known stable radical species reveals a region of this feature space where long-lived radicals are located. These descriptors, based upon maximum spin density and buried volume, are combined into a single metric, the radical stability score, that outperforms thermodynamic scales based on bond dissociation enthalpies in identifying remarkably long-lived radicals. This provides an objective and accessible metric for use in future molecular design and optimization campaigns. We demonstrate this approach in identifying Pareto-optimal candidates for stable organic radicals."}
{"title": "Data-driven and constrained optimization of semi-local exchange and nonlocal correlation functionals for materials and surface chemistry", "abstract": "Reliable predictions of surface chemical reaction energetics require an accurate description of both chemisorption and physisorption. Here, we present an empirical approach to simultaneously optimize semi-local exchange and nonlocal correlation of a density functional approximation to improve these energetics. A combination of reference data for solid bulk, surface, and gas-phase chemistry and physical exchange-correlation model constraints leads to the VCML-rVV10 exchange-correlation functional. Owing to the variety of training data, the applicability of VCML-rVV10 extends beyond surface chemistry simulations. It provides optimized gas phase reaction energetics and an accurate description of bulk lattice constants and elastic properties."}
{"title": "Complexity of many-body interactions in transition metals via machine-learned force fields from the TM23 data set", "abstract": "This work examines challenges associated with the accuracy of machine-learned force fields (MLFFs) for bulk solid and liquid phases of d-block elements. In exhaustive detail, we contrast the performance of force, energy, and stress predictions across the transition metals for two leading MLFF models: a kernel-based atomic cluster expansion method implemented using sparse Gaussian processes (FLARE), and an equivariant message-passing neural network (NequIP). Early transition metals present higher relative errors and are more difficult to learn relative to late platinum- and coinage-group elements, and this trend persists across model architectures. Trends in complexity of interatomic interactions for different metals are revealed via comparison of the performance of representations with different many-body order and angular resolution. Using arguments based on perturbation theory on the occupied and unoccupied d states near the Fermi level, we determine that the large, sharp d density of states both above and below the Fermi level in early transition metals leads to a more complex, harder-to-learn potential energy surface for these metals. Increasing the fictitious electronic temperature (smearing) modifies the angular sensitivity of forces and makes the early transition metal forces easier to learn. This work illustrates challenges in capturing intricate properties of metallic bonding with current leading MLFFs and provides a reference data set for transition metals, aimed at benchmarking the accuracy and improving the development of emerging machine-learned approximations."}
{"title": "A look at the density functional theory zoo with the advanced GMTKN55 database for general main group thermochemistry, kinetics and noncovalent interactions", "abstract": "We present the GMTKN55 benchmark database for general main group thermochemistry, kinetics and noncovalent interactions. Compared to its popular predecessor GMTKN30 [Goerigk and Grimme J. Chem. Theory Comput., 2011, 7, 291], it allows assessment across a larger variety of chemical problems—with 13 new benchmark sets being presented for the first time—and it also provides reference values of significantly higher quality for most sets. GMTKN55 comprises 1505 relative energies based on 2462 single-point calculations and it is accessible to the user community via a dedicated website. Herein, we demonstrate the importance of better reference values, and we re-emphasise the need for London-dispersion corrections in density functional theory (DFT) treatments of thermochemical problems, including Minnesota methods. We assessed 217 variations of dispersion-corrected and -uncorrected density functional approximations, and carried out a detailed analysis of 83 of them to identify robust and reliable approaches. Double-hybrid functionals are the most reliable approaches for thermochemistry and noncovalent interactions, and they should be used whenever technically feasible. These are, in particular, DSD-BLYP-D3(BJ), DSD-PBEP86-D3(BJ), and B2GPPLYP-D3(BJ). The best hybrids are ωB97X-V, M052X-D3(0), and ωB97X-D3, but we also recommend PW6B95-D3(BJ) as the best conventional global hybrid. At the meta-generalised-gradient (meta-GGA) level, the SCAN-D3(BJ) method can be recommended. Other meta-GGAs are outperformed by the GGA functionals revPBE-D3(BJ), B97-D3(BJ), and OLYP-D3(BJ). We note that many popular methods, such as B3LYP, are not part of our recommendations. In fact, with our results we hope to inspire a change in the user community's perception of common DFT methods. We also encourage method developers to use GMTKN55 for cross-validation studies of new methodologies."}
{"title": "Explainable Synthesizability Prediction of Inorganic Crystal Polymorphs using Large Language Models", "abstract": "We evaluate the ability of machine learning to predict whether a hypothetical crystal structure can be synthesized and explain those predictions to scientists. Fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) trained on a human-readable text description of the target crystal structure perform comparably to previous bespoke convolutional graph neural network methods, but better prediction quality can be achieved by training a positive-unlabeled learning model on a text-embedding representation of the structure. An LLM-based workflow can then be used to generate human-readable explanations for the types of factors governing synthesizability, extract the underlying physical rules, and assess the veracity of those rules. These explanations can guide chemists in modifying or optimizing non-synthesizable hypothetical structures to make them more feasible for materials design."}
{"title": "Extending quantum-mechanical benchmark accuracy to biological ligand-pocket interactions", "abstract": "Predicting the binding affinity of ligand molecules to protein pockets is a key step in the drug design pipeline. The flexibility of ligand-pocket motifs arises from a wide range of attractive and repulsive electronic interactions invoked upon binding. Accurately accounting for all these interactions on equal footing requires robust quantum-mechanical (QM) benchmarks, which are scarce for ligand-pocket systems. In addition, the puzzling disagreement between “gold standard” Coupled Cluster (CCSD(T)) and Quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) methods [Nat. Commun. 12, 3927 (2021)] casts doubt on many existing benchmarks for larger non-covalent systems. Here, we introduce the “Quantum Interacting Dimer” (QUID) benchmark framework containing 170 non-covalent systems spanning equilibrium and non-equilibrium geometries that model chemically and structurally diverse ligand-pocket motifs. Symmetry-adapted perturbation theory shows that QUID broadly covers non-covalent binding motifs and energetic (exchange-repulsion, electrostatic, induction, and dispersion) contributions. Robust and reproducible binding energies are obtained using two complementary QM methods: LNO-CCSD(T) and QMC, achieving mutual agreement of 0.3 kcal/mol. Analysis of this benchmark data reveals that several dispersion-inclusive density functional approximations provide accurate energy predictions, though they exhibit discrepancies in magnitude and orientation of atomic van der Waals forces, which could influence the dynamics of ligands within the pocket. On the contrary, semiempirical methods and widely used empirical force fields require improvements, particularly in capturing non-covalent interactions (NCIs) for out-of-equilibrium geometries. The wide span of molecular dipole moments and polarizabilities in QUID also demonstrates flexibility in designing pocket structures to achieve desired binding properties. Therefore, QUID sets a new “platinum standard” for reliable and reproducible QM benchmarks of NCIs in larger systems and enhances our understanding of biomolecular ligand-pocket interactions."}
{"title": "tmQMg* Dataset: Excited State Properties of 74k Transition Metal Complexes", "abstract": "The application of machine learning approaches to meaningful problems in chemistry and materials science is still challenged by the limited availability of data. In order to close this gap, we report the tmQMg* dataset, which provides excited state properties for 74k mononuclear transition metal complexes extracted from the Cambridge Structural Database. All properties were computed at the TD-DFT wB97xd/def2SVP level of theory. The strongest electron excitations in the ultraviolet, visible, and near-infrared ranges are included, together with the wavelengths and intensities of the first 30 excited states. Further, natural transition orbitals were computed for the strongest excitation in the visible range to determine the nature of the associated charge transfer. By computing the TD-DFT spectra in both gas phase and acetone, we quantified solvatochromic effects, which are also provided with the dataset, in terms of both wavelength shifts and intensity changes. The tmQMg* dataset will enable the development of discriminative and generative AI models with respect to absorption spectra, charge transfer character, and solvatochromism, enabling novel advances in the field of transition metal photochemistry."}
{"title": "tmQM Dataset—Quantum Geometries and Properties of 86k Transition Metal Complexes", "abstract": "We report the transition metal quantum mechanics (tmQM) data set, which contains the geometries and properties of a large transition metal-organic compound space. tmQM comprises 86,665 mononuclear complexes extracted from the Cambridge Structural Database, including Werner, bioinorganic, and organometallic complexes based on a large variety of organic ligands and 30 transition metals (the 3d, 4d, and 5d from groups 3 to 12). All complexes are closed-shell, with a formal charge in the range {+1, 0, -1}e. The tmQM data set provides the Cartesian coordinates of all metal complexes optimized at the GFN2-xTB level, and their molecular size, stoichiometry, and metal node degree. The quantum properties were computed at the DFT(TPSSh-D3BJ/def2-SVP) level and include the electronic and dispersion energies, highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energies, HOMO/LUMO gap, dipole moment, and natural charge of the metal center; GFN2-xTB polarizabilities are also provided. Pairwise representations showed the low correlation between these properties, providing nearly continuous maps with unusual regions of the chemical space, for example, complexes combining large polarizabilities with wide HOMO/LUMO gaps and complexes combining low-energy HOMO orbitals with electron-rich metal centers. The tmQM data set can be exploited in the data-driven discovery of new metal complexes, including predictive models based on machine learning. These models may have a strong impact on the fields in which transition metal chemistry plays a key role, for example, catalysis, organic synthesis, and materials science. tmQM is an open data set that can be downloaded free of charge from https://github.com/bbskjelstad/tmqm."}
{"title": "Directional Multiobjective Optimization of Metal Complexes at the Billion-Scale with the tmQMg-L Dataset and PL-MOGA Algorithm", "abstract": "Transition metal complexes (TMCs) play a key role in several areas of high interest, including medicinal chemistry, renewable energies, and nanoporous materials. The development of TMCs enabling these technologies remains challenged by the need to optimize multiple properties within very large chemical spaces, in which the thirty transition metals can be combined with a virtually infinite number of ligands. In this work, we provide the open tmQMg-L dataset including 30K TMC ligands, which combines large chemical diversity with synthesizability. The charge and metal-coordination mode of the ligands were robustly defined with a novel algorithm based on graph and natural bond orbital theories. The tmQMg-L dataset was leveraged in the automated generation of 1.37M TMCs resulting from all possible combinations between a square planar palladium(II) scaffold and a pool of 50 different ligands. This TMC space was used to benchmark a multiobjective genetic algorithm (MOGA) that optimized two properties over a Pareto front; namely the polarizability (alpha) and the HOMO-LUMO gap (epsilon). The MOGA evolved 130 TMC hits with maximal (alpha, epsilon) values in a way that could be easily rationalized by analyzing the nature of the ligands selected. Instead of the traditional mutation and crossover of fragments within a single ligand, this MOGA implemented full-ligand genetic operations acting on all coordination sites, maximizing chemical diversity. Further, we extended this MOGA algorithm with the Pareto-Lighthouse functionality (PL-MOGA), which allows for controlling both the aim and scope of the multiobjective optimization over the Pareto front. In explicit spaces containing billions of TMCs, the PL-MOGA enabled the explainable generation of thousands of novel and highly diverse TMC hits. We believe that the combined use of the tmQMg-L dataset and PL-MOGA algorithm will facilitate the discovery of TMCs with optimal properties within untapped chemical spaces."}
{"title": "Assessment of Gaussian-2 and density functional theories for the computation of enthalpies of formation", "abstract": "A set of 148 molecules having well-established enthalpies of formation at 298 K is presented. This set, referred to as the G2 neutral test set, includes the 55 molecules whose atomization energies were used to test Gaussian-2 (G2) theory [J. Chem. Phys. 94, 7221 (1991)] and 93 new molecules. The G2 test set includes 29 radicals, 35 nonhydrogen systems, 22 hydrocarbons, 47 substituted hydrocarbons, and 15 inorganic hydrides. It is hoped that this new test set will provide a means for assessing and improving new theoretical models. From an assessment of G2 and density functional theories (DFT) on this test set it is found that G2 theory is the most reliable method both in terms of average absolute deviation (1.58 kcal/mol) and maximum deviation (8.2 kcal/mol). The largest deviations between experiment and G2 theory occur for molecules having multiple halogens. Inclusion of spin–orbit effects reduces the average absolute deviation to 1.47 kcal/mol and significantly improves the results for the chlorine-substituted molecules, but little overall improvement is seen for the fluorine-substituted molecules. Of the two modified versions of G2 theory examined in this study, G2(MP2,SVP) theory (average absolute deviation = 1.93 kcal/mol) performs better than G2(MP2) theory (2.04 kcal/mol). Of the seven DFT methods investigated, the B3LYP method has the smallest average absolute deviation (3.11 kcal/mol). It also has a significantly larger distribution of error than the G2 methods with a maximum deviation of 20.1 kcal/mol."}
{"title": "Directly optimizing for synthesizability in generative molecular design using retrosynthesis models", "abstract": "Synthesizability in generative molecular design remains a pressing challenge. Existing methods to assess synthesizability include heuristics-based metrics or retrosynthesis models which predict a synthetic pathway. By contrast, an explicit approach anchors generation with “synthetically-feasible” chemical transformations, such that all generated molecules already have a predicted synthetic pathway. To date, retrosynthesis models have been mostly used as a post hoc filtering tool as their inference cost remains prohibitive to use directly in an optimization loop. In this work, we show that with a sufficiently sample-efficient generative model, it is straightforward to directly optimize for synthesizability using retrosynthesis models in goal-directed generation. Under a heavily-constrained computational budget, our model can generate molecules satisfying multi-parameter drug discovery optimization tasks while being synthesizable, as deemed by retrosynthesis models. We reaffirm previous findings that common synthesizability heuristics (formulated based on known bio-active molecules) can be well correlated with retrosynthesis models' solvability, such that optimizing for the latter may not be an optimal allocation of computational resources. However, going further, we show that moving to other classes of molecules, such as functional materials, current heuristics' correlations diminish, such that there is an advantage to incorporating retrosynthesis models directly in the optimization loop. Finally, we demonstrate that over-reliance on synthesizability heuristics can overlook promising molecules. The codebase is available at https://github.com/schwallergroup/saturn."}
{"title": "Machine Learning for Organic Cage Property Prediction", "abstract": "We use machine learning to predict shape persistence and cavity size in porous organic cages. The majority of hypothetical organic cages suffer from a lack of shape persistence and as a result lack intrinsic porosity, rendering them unsuitable for many applications. We have created the largest computational database of these molecules to date, numbering 63,472 cages, formed through a range of reaction chemistries and in multiple topologies. We study our database and identify features which lead to the formation of shape persistent cages. We find that the imine condensation of trialdehydes and diamines in a [4+6] reaction is the most likely to result in shape persistent cages, whereas thiol reactions are most likely to give collapsed cages. Using this database, we develop machine learning models capable of predicting shape persistence with an accuracy of up to 93%, reducing the time taken to predict this property to milliseconds, and removing the need for specialist software. In addition, we develop machine learning models for two other key properties of these molecules, cavity size and symmetry. We provide open-source implementations of our models, together with the accompanying data sets, and an online tool giving users access to our models to easily obtain predictions for a hypothetical cage prior to a synthesis attempt."}
{"title": "Maximising the hydrogen evolution activity in organic photocatalysts by co-polymerisation", "abstract": "The hydrogen evolution activity of a polymeric photocatalyst was maximised by co-polymerisation, using both experimental and computational screening, for a family of 1,4-phenylene/2,5-thiophene co-polymers. The photocatalytic activity is the product of multiple material properties that are affected in different ways by the polymer composition and microstructure. For the first time, the photocatalytic activity was shown to be a function of the arrangement of the building blocks in the polymer chain as well as the overall composition. The maximum in hydrogen evolution for the co-polymer series appears to result from a trade-off between the fraction of light absorbed and the thermodynamic driving force for proton reduction and sacrificial electron donor oxidation, with the co-polymer of p-terphenyl and 2,5-thiophene showing the highest activity."}
{"title": "High-Throughput Screening Approach for the Optoelectronic Properties of Conjugated Polymers", "abstract": "We propose a general high-throughput virtual screening approach for the optical and electronic properties of conjugated polymers. This approach makes use of the recently developed xTB family of low-computational-cost density functional tight-binding methods from Grimme and co-workers, calibrated here to (Time-Dependent) Density Functional Theory ((TD)DFT) data computed for a representative diverse set of (co)polymers. Parameters drawn from the resulting calibration using a linear model can then be applied to the xTB derived results for new polymers, thus generating near DFT-quality data with orders of magnitude reduction in computational cost. As a result, after an initial computational investment for calibration, this approach can be used to quickly and accurately screen on the order of thousands of polymers for target applications. We also demonstrate that the (opto)electronic properties of the conjugated polymers show only a very minor variation when considering different conformers and that the results of high-throughput screening are therefore expected to be relatively insensitive with respect to the conformer search methodology applied."}
{"title": "Mapping binary copolymer property space with neural networks", "abstract": "The extremely large number of unique polymer compositions that can be achieved through copolymerisation makes it an attractive strategy for tuning their optoelectronic properties. However, this same attribute also makes it challenging to explore the resulting property space and understand the range of properties that can be realised. In an effort to enable the rapid exploration of this space in the case of binary copolymers, we train a neural network using a tiered data generation strategy to accurately predict the optical and electronic properties of 350 000 binary copolymers that are, in principle, synthesizable from their dihalogen monomers via Yamamoto, or Suzuki–Miyaura and Stille coupling after one-step functionalisation. By extracting general features of this property space that would otherwise be obscured in smaller datasets, we identify simple models that effectively relate the properties of these copolymers to the homopolymers of their constituent monomers, and challenge common ideas behind copolymer design. We find that binary copolymerisation does not appear to allow access to regions of the optoelectronic property space that are not already sampled by the homopolymers, although it conceptually allows for more fine-grained property control. Using the large volume of data available, we test the hypothesis that copolymerisation of ‘donor’ and ‘acceptor’ monomers can result in copolymers with a lower optical gap than their related homopolymers. Overall, despite the prevalence of this concept in the literature, we observe that this phenomenon is relatively rare, and propose conditions that greatly enhance the likelihood of its experimental realisation."}
{"title": "Streamlining the automated discovery of porous organic cages", "abstract": "Self-assembly through dynamic covalent chemistry (DCC) can yield a range of multi-component organic assemblies. The reversibility and dynamic nature of DCC has made prediction of reaction outcome particularly difficult and thus slows the discovery rate of new organic materials. In addition, traditional experimental processes are time-consuming and often rely on serendipity. Here, we present a streamlined hybrid workflow that combines automated high-throughput experimentation, automated data analysis, and computational modelling, to accelerate the discovery process of one particular subclass of molecular organic materials, porous organic cages. We demonstrate how the design and implementation of this workflow aids in the identification of organic cages with desirable properties. The curation of a precursor library of 55 tri- and di-topic aldehyde and amine precursors enabled the experimental screening of 366 imine condensation reactions experimentally, and 1464 hypothetical organic cage outcomes to be computationally modelled. From the screen, 225 cages were identified experimentally using mass spectrometry, 54 of which were cleanly formed as a single topology as determined by both turbidity measurements and 1H NMR spectroscopy. Integration of these characterisation methods into a fully automated Python pipeline, named cagey, led to over a 350-fold decrease in the time required for data analysis. This work highlights the advantages of combining automated synthesis, characterisation, and analysis, for large-scale data curation towards an accessible data-driven materials discovery approach."}
{"title": "A database framework for rapid screening of structure-function relationships in PFAS chemistry", "abstract": "This paper describes a database framework that enables one to rapidly explore systematics in structure-function relationships associated with new and emerging PFAS chemistries. The data framework maps high dimensional information associated with the SMILES approach of encoding molecular structure with functionality data including bioactivity and physicochemical property. This ‘PFAS-Map’ is a 3-dimensional unsupervised visualization tool that can automatically classify new PFAS chemistries based on current PFAS classification criteria. We provide examples on how the PFAS-Map can be utilized, including the prediction and estimation of yet unmeasured fundamental physical properties of PFAS chemistries, uncovering hierarchical characteristics in existing classification schemes, and the fusion of data from diverse sources."}
{"title": "A high-throughput computational dataset of halide perovskite alloys", "abstract": "Novel halide perovskites with improved stability and optoelectronic properties can be designed via composition engineering at cation and/or anion sites. Data-driven methods, especially involving high-throughput first principles computations and subsequent analysis based on unique materials descriptors, are key to achieving this goal. In this work, we report a density functional theory (DFT) dataset of 495 ABX3 halide perovskite compounds, with monovalent organic or inorganic cations as A, divalent Group 2 or Group 14 elements as B, and I, Br, or Cl as X, and different amounts of mixing applied at each site using the special quasirandom structures (SQS) approach. We perform GGA-PBE calculations on all 495 pseudo-cubic perovskite structures and between 250 and 300 calculations each using the more expensive HSE06 functional, with and without spin–orbit coupling, both including full geometry optimization and static calculations on PBE optimized structures. Lattice parameters, decomposition energy, band gap, and theoretical photovoltaic efficiency derived from computed optical absorption spectra, are determined from each level of theory, and some comparisons are made with collected experimental values. Trends in the data are unraveled in terms of the effects of mixing at different sites, fractions of specific elemental or molecular species present in the compound, and averaged physical properties of species at different sites. We perform screening across the perovskite dataset based on multiple known definitions of stability factors, deviation from cubicity in the optimization cell, and computed stability and optoelectronic properties, leading to a list of promising compositions as well as design principles for achieving multiple desired properties. Our multi-objective, multi-fidelity, computational halide perovskite alloy dataset, one of the most comprehensive to date, is available open-source, and currently being used to train predictive and optimization models for accelerating the design of novel compositions for superior performance across many optoelectronic applications."}
{"title": "Real-time prediction of 1H and 13C chemical shifts with DFT accuracy using a 3D graph neural network", "abstract": "Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) is one of the primary techniques used to elucidate the chemical structure, bonding, stereochemistry, and conformation of organic compounds. The distinct chemical shifts in an NMR spectrum depend upon each atom's local chemical environment and are influenced by both through-bond and through-space interactions with other atoms and functional groups. The in silico prediction of NMR chemical shifts using quantum mechanical (QM) calculations is now commonplace in aiding organic structural assignment since spectra can be computed for several candidate structures and then compared with experimental values to find the best possible match. However, the computational demands of calculating multiple structural- and stereo-isomers, each of which may typically exist as an ensemble of rapidly-interconverting conformations, are expensive. Additionally, the QM predictions themselves may lack sufficient accuracy to identify a correct structure. In this work, we address both of these shortcomings by developing a rapid machine learning (ML) protocol to predict 1H and 13C chemical shifts through an efficient graph neural network (GNN) using 3D structures as input. Transfer learning with experimental data is used to improve the final prediction accuracy of a model trained using QM calculations. When tested on the CHESHIRE dataset, the proposed model predicts observed 13C chemical shifts with comparable accuracy to the best-performing DFT functionals (1.5 ppm) in around 1/6000 of the CPU time. An automated prediction webserver and graphical interface are accessible online at http://nova.chem.colostate.edu/cascade/. We further demonstrate the model in three applications: first, we use the model to decide the correct organic structure from candidates through experimental spectra, including complex stereoisomers; second, we automatically detect and revise incorrect chemical shift assignments in a popular NMR database, the NMRShiftDB; and third, we use NMR chemical shifts as descriptors for determination of the sites of electrophilic aromatic substitution."}
{"title": "Prediction of organic homolytic bond dissociation enthalpies at near chemical accuracy with sub-second computational cost", "abstract": "Bond dissociation enthalpies (BDEs) of organic molecules play a fundamental role in determining chemical reactivity and selectivity. However, BDE computations at sufficiently high levels of quantum mechanical theory require substantial computing resources. In this paper, we develop a machine learning model capable of accurately predicting BDEs for organic molecules in a fraction of a second. We perform automated density functional theory (DFT) calculations at the M06-2X/def2-TZVP level of theory for 42,577 small organic molecules, resulting in 290,664 BDEs. A graph neural network trained on a subset of these results achieves a mean absolute error of 0.58 kcal mol−1 (vs DFT) for BDEs of unseen molecules. We further demonstrate the model on two applications: first, we rapidly and accurately predict major sites of hydrogen abstraction in the metabolism of drug-like molecules, and second, we determine the dominant molecular fragmentation pathways during soot formation."}
{"title": "Using machine learning in QSPR to estimate the boiling and critical temperatures of pure organic compounds", "abstract": "This study aims to develop models using a Quantitative Structure–Property Relationship (QSPR) approach to predict normal boiling temperature (Tb) and critical temperature (Tc) for curated sets of organic compounds. Molecular descriptors derived from SMILES representations are combined with machine learning models, with multilayer perceptron artificial neural networks (MLP-ANN) compared against support vector regression (SVR) baselines. Models are trained and evaluated on datasets of ~400 compounds per property, and the best-performing configurations demonstrate improved predictive accuracy for both Tb and Tc relative to the SVR reference. The study discusses applicability domain assessment and sensitivity analyses of key descriptors, and highlights the potential of ML-QSPR frameworks for reliable estimation of thermophysical properties of pure organic compounds."}
{"title": "Comprehensive Thermochemical Benchmark Set of Realistic Closed-Shell Metal Organic Reactions", "abstract": "We introduce the new MOR41 benchmark set consisting of 41 closed-shell organometallic reactions resembling many important chemical transformations commonly used in transition metal chemistry and catalysis. It includes significantly larger molecules than presented in other transition metal test sets and covers a broad range of bonding motifs. Recent progress in linear-scaling coupled cluster theory allowed for the calculation of accurate DLPNO-CCSD(T)/CBS(def2-TZVPP/def2-QZVPP) reference energies for 3d, 4d, 5d-transition metal compounds with up to 120 atoms. Furthermore, 41 density functionals, including seven GGAs, three meta-GGAs, 14 hybrid functionals, and 17 double-hybrid functionals combined with two different London dispersion corrections, are benchmarked with respect to their performance for the newly compiled MOR41 reaction energies. A few wave function-based post-HF methods as, e.g., MP2 or RPA with similar computational demands are also tested and in total, 90 methods were considered. The double-hybrid functional PWPB95-D3(BJ) outperformed all other assessed methods with an MAD of 1.9 kcal/mol, followed by the hybrids ωB97X-V (2.2 kcal/mol) and mPW1B95-D3(BJ) (2.4 kcal/mol). The popular PBE0-D3(BJ) hybrid also performs well (2.8 kcal/mol). Within the meta-GGA class, the recently published SCAN-D3(BJ) functional as well as TPSS-D3(BJ) perform best (MAD of 3.2 and 3.3 kcal/mol, respectively). Many popular methods like BP86-D3(BJ) (4.9 kcal/mol) or B3LYP-D3(BJ) (4.9 kcal/mol) provide significantly worse reaction energies and are not recommended for organometallic thermochemistry considering the availability of better methods with the same computational cost. The results regarding the performance of different functional approximations are consistent with conclusions from previous main-group thermochemistry benchmark studies."}
{"title": "Structure Optimisation of Large Transition-Metal Complexes with Extended Tight-Binding Methods", "abstract": "Large transition-metal complexes are used in numerous areas of chemistry. Computer-aided theoretical investigations of such complexes are limited by the sheer size of real systems often consisting of hundreds to thousands of atoms. Accordingly, the development and thorough evaluation of fast semi-empirical quantum chemistry methods that are universally applicable to a large part of the periodic table is indispensable. Herein, we report on the capability of the recently developed GFNn-xTB method family for full quantum-mechanical geometry optimisation of medium to very large transition-metal complexes and organometallic supramolecular structures. The results for a specially compiled benchmark set of 145 diverse closed-shell transition-metal complex structures for all metals up to Hg are presented. Further the GFNn-xTB methods are tested on three established benchmark sets regarding reaction energies and barrier heights of organometallic reactions."}
{"title": "Generative Design of Functional Metal Complexes Utilizing the Internal Knowledge and Reasoning Capability of Large Language Models", "abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown promise in science, such as structure-property prediction and acting as AI agents, yet their intrinsic knowledge and reasoning capability for scientific discovery remains underexplored. We introduce LLM-EO, an integration of LLMs into evolutionary optimization, and demonstrate its success in optimizing transition metal complexes (TMCs). LLM-EO demonstrates advantages in few-sample learning due to the intrinsic chemical knowledge embedded within LLMs and their ability to leverage entire historical data collected during optimizations. Through natural language instructions, LLM-EO offers enhanced accessibility for multiobjective optimizations, potentially lowering barriers for experimental chemists without extensive programming expertise. As generative models, LLM-EO possesses the capability to propose novel ligands and TMCs with unique chemical properties by amalgamating both internal knowledge and external chemistry data, thus combining the benefits of efficient optimization and generation. With advancements in LLMs, both in their capacity as pretrained foundational models and new strategies in post-training inference, we anticipate broad applications of LLM-EO in chemistry and materials design."}
